
### [\*] Data Modelling

* A data model is a collection of concepts or notations for describing data, data relationships, data semantics, and data constraints.
* A Data Model provides abstraction to the user from the complex internal Database code.

#### [\*] Model Types

**1. ER Model**
* This model provides a way to present data which is similar to how humans percieve data.
* It uses concepts like entities, attributes & relationships.

**2. Logical Data Model**
* This model provide concepts that the user can understand as well as similar to how data is stored on system.
 A. Hierarchial Model:
    * The data is organised into tree-like structure with parent-child relationship.
    * This assumes/limits that child record can have only 1 parent record, whereas parent record can have multiple child records.

 B. Network Model:
    * Expands the Hierarchial model, allowing child to have more than 1 parent.

 C. Relational Model
    * It represents data as relations or tables.

**3. Physical Data Model**
* This model represents mimics how data in stored in memory, how it is scattered and ordered in the memory.

#### [\*] Database Schema
* A schema is the blueprint of the database.
* It includes the name of tables, columns, functions, datatype etc
* There should be minimal updates in the schema of the database, as it would require a lot of data movement.
* The modification of schema is called as *Schema Revolution*.

#### [\*] 3-Schema Architecture
* It helps to seperate the user applications from the physical database.

**1. External Schema**
* It is the part of DB that the end-user is interested in, it is user-specific.

**2. Conceptual Schema**
* It describes the structure of whole database.
* It hides information regarding physical storage and focus on describing data-type, entities, relationship etc
* Useful for developer.

**3 Internal Schema**
* It describes how the database is stored on the physical storage.

#### [\*] Data Independence
* It is a property of the database management system that helps to change the database schema at one level of a database system without changing the schema at the next highest level.

**1. Logical Data independence**
* Changing/Adding/Updating the conceptual schema should not affect the function of application(visible to end-user)

**2. Physical Data independence**
* It ensures that the changes to Internal Schema (added more storage, moved from HDD to SSD etc) doesn't effect the conceptual schema.
