
### [\*] Entity-Relationship Data Model

* It is a high-level conceptual model well suited for data modelling.
* Represented using ER diagrams.

**1. Entities:** 
* It is a real world object with an independent existence.
* Every entity has attributes which are the properties that describe it.
* An *Entity Type* is a set of entities (real-world objects) that have the same attributes(with same/diff values) 
* Weak Entities: There are the entity types that don't have key attributes.
* Strong Entities: There are the entity types that have key attributes.

**2 .Attributes**
* These are the set of properties of the entity. Eg: For human - skin-color, height, weight, ethinicity, hair-color
* It has a range of values associated. Eg: Weight of person cannot be -ve or string.
* Simple Attributes- Eg: name, age
* Complex Attributes: Eg: first name + last name
* Multi-values Attributes: Those attribtutes which can have multiple values. Eg: Mobile number
* Derived Attributes: Eg: From Date of Birth, we can derive present Age

* Key:
    * It is the attribute which distinguishes b/w 2 entities. Eg: Social Security Number of a person.
* Composite Key:
    * When a single attribute is not enough for uniquely identifying. Eg: for cat, vehicleNo. + State will be unique



**3. Relationship:** This defines the associations or interactions b/w the entities.
* It is an association b/w two entities.
* Relationship Type:
    * It is used to describe the type/reason for the relationship b/w the 2 entities.

* Mapping Cardinality: 
    * It describes the maximum number of entities that a given entity can be associated withe via a relationship.
    * It can be 
    - One to One
    - One to Many
    - Many to Many

* The relationship itself can have attribute values. Eg: for a supervisor and employee relation, with relationship = SUPERVISES, it can have attribute such as "start Date"
    
