
### [\*] Relation Data Model

* This model represents the database as collection of relations.
* A relation is table of values
* Every row in the table represents collection of related data values, and denote real-world entity/relationship.

* Terminology, with respect to a relation model of STUDENT database

  * Attribute: Columns in a table. These are the properties that define a relation, e.g., Roll\_No, Name, etc.
  * Tuple: It is a single row of a table, which contains a single record. 
  * Relation schema: It represents the name of the relation with its attributes. e.g; STUDENT (Roll\No, Name, Address, Phone, and Age) is a relation schema for the STUDENT relation.
  * Degree: The number of attributes in the relation is known as the degree of the relation. 
  * Cardinality: The number of tuples in a relation is known as cardinality. The STUDENT relation defined above has a cardinality of 4.
  * Relation instance: The set of tuples in a relation at a particular instance in time is called a relation instance. It changes whenever we insert, delete or update the database.
  * NULL values: The value which is not known or unavailable is called a NULL value. 
  * Domain: ADomain is a set of acceptable values that a column is allowed to contain. For example:
  *     Name: The set of character strings that represent the name of a person.
  *     Age: Possible ages of students in a university; each must be an integer value between 17 and 27.

#### [\*] Properties of a Table
1. Each row/tuple must be unique
2. Values of attribute in each row must be atomic
3. Columns values are of same-type
4. Rows/Column order/sequence is in-sginificant
5. Each column has unique name


#### [\*] Keys
1. Super Key: It is as a collection/set of attributes within a table that can uniquely identify each record within a table.
2. Candidate Key: It is the minimal set of fields that can uniquely identify each record in a table i.e minimal of all possible Super Keys.
3. Primary Key: 1 single attribute that can uniquely identify the row in table.
4. Foreign Key: A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between the data in two tables


#### [\*] Integrity Rules and Constraints
* These are the rules that force DBMSs to check that data satisfies the semantics.
* Relational integrity constraints are the conditions that must be present for a valid relation
* Domain constraints specify that within each tuple, the value of each attribute must appear in the corresponding domain (in other words, it should belong to the appropriate data type)
* To ensure entity integrity, it is required that every relation has a primary keyo ensure entity integrity, it is required that every relation has a primary key
* Referential integrity constraint is enforced when a foreign key references the primary key of a relation. It specifies that all the values taken by the foreign key must either be available in the relation of the primary key or be NULL.
* 
