
### [\*] gRPC
* gRPC is an implementation of RPC i.e Remote Procedure Call.
* RPC: It is a procedure to execute in a different address space, which is coded as if it were a local procedure call, without the programmer explicitly coding the details for the remote interaction.

* gRPC are language agnostic and support major langhuages.
* gRPC uses HTTP/2 internally for communication.
* It internally uses Protocol Buffers as data format for communication which is much more space efficient than JSON.

* Metadata: It is the data about a particular RPC call in teh form of key-value pair.
* Channels: A gRPC channel provides connection to gRPC server on a host:port, which is used by client stub to communicate with the server.

#### [\*] Modes
**1. Unary RPC**
* Steps:
  1. Client stub method on the server, the server is notified that a call is made along with the client metadata such as methodName,deadline etc
  2. In this 2 possibilities are there and their order of execution is application-specific.
      1. server sends back it's metatdata
      2. client sends request message
  3. Once server recieves client's request, it generates the response, which along with status, metadata is returned to client.
  4. if response is OK (similar to response_code=200 for Rest), then client completes the rpc.

**2. Server Streaming RPC**
* Similar to Unary - In this instead of server just returning a single message, returns a stream of messages in response to client's request.
* Once the server stream has completed, it sends status and optional trailing data which concludes the process on server.
* On the Client end, once it recieves everything it compeletes the rpc.
* Eg: Watching Live youtube video (just an example , not sure if it uses grpc)

**3. Client Streaming RPC**
* Similar to Unary - In this the client sends stream of data to server and server responds with a single mesage containing status detail, optional trailing metadata etc. The server sends this **typically but not necessarily** after it has recieved all the client's data.
* Eg: Streaming on Youtube/Twitch Live (just an example , not sure if it uses grpc)

**4. Bidirectional Streaming:**
* In this both the client and the server streams the data instead of a single message.
* Since, the two streams are independent of each other the order of read/write on the individual stream doesn't really matter. Eg: The server can wait untill the client stream ends to sendback response, or they can do ping-pong.


#### [\*] Termination
1. Deadlines: 
    * gRPC allows client to specifiy **deadlines** i.e how long they can wait fro RPC to complete before it is terminated witha  **DEADLINE_EXCEEDED** error.
    * The server can query if a particular RPC has timed-out or how much time is left to complete.

2. Cancelling:
    * The client or the server **cancel** the RPC at any time, which will terminate it immediately so that no further work is done.

3. Since both the client and server makes indepenedent call and local determinations of the success of call, their conclusions may not be coherent i.e its possible that the server concluded successfull completion becaus eit was able to send all the data, whereras the client concluded failure since the response arrived after deadline.



|    |                                          |                                                            |
|S.No| Pros                                     | Cons                                                       |
|:---|:-----------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------:|
|1.  | Fast & Compact                           | Rigid schema (which is not reqd in REST)                   |
|2.  | Single client library                    | Client code is a little heavy as proto file is compiled    |
|3.  | Progress Feedback (via server streaming) | Proxies doens't support gRPC                               |
|4.  | Cancel Request (using HTTP2)             | Error Handling                                             |
|5.  | HTTP2/ & Protobuff                       | No native browser support                                  |
|6.  | -                                        | Timeouts (specially when nested micro-services are running)|
|    |                                          |                                                            |


#### [\*] Code Examples
* Server to store details of a Student and fetch back the response on query. (not persistent) <a href="./Code"> Code </a>
* Run as:

```bash
# Step 1 : Setting up Environment
$ python -m venv grpc_venv
$ pip install -r requirements.txt

# Step 2: Running server
$ python server.py

# Step 3: Running Client
$ python client.py
```
