### [\*] Intro to AI

Ques: What is AI ?? </br>
A: Science and eng of making intyelligent machines
 * Weak AI: These are the machines which perform a small set of dedicated task only. Eg: Alexa, Google Search etc , these can learn the task quickly and do it but cannot reason it, wehreas a human can.
 * Strong AI: These sort of AI are the ones which possess the ability to perform any task a human can.
 * Super Intelligence AI: Which can bypass human intelligence.


Ques: ML/AI ?  </br>
A: ML lies in AI, ML is one way to implement AI.
 * ML: It is a subset of AI, in which the machine learn automatically and improves from experience without being explicitly programmed.


Ques: Solving a problem using ML. </br>
A: Steps:
1. Data Collection:
  * The process of extracting raw datasets for the machine learning task. 
  * If the data you collect is poor quality or irrelevant, then the model you train will be poor quality as well.

2. Data Processing and Preparation: 
  * Once you’ve gathered the relevant data, you need to process it and make sure that it is in a usable format for training a machine learning model. 
  * This includes handling missing data, dealing with outliers, etc.

3. Feature Engineering: 
  * Once you’ve collected and processed your dataset, you will likely need to transform some of the features (and sometimes even drop some features) in order to optimize how well a model can be trained on the data.

4. Model Selection: 
  * Based on the dataset, you will choose which model architecture to use. 
  * This is one of the main tasks of industry engineers. Rather than attempting to come up with a completely novel model architecture, most tasks can be thoroughly performed with an existing architecture (or combination of model architectures).

5. Model Training and Data Pipeline: 
  * After selecting the model architecture, you will create a data pipeline for training the model. 
  * This means creating a continuous stream of batched data observations to efficiently train the model. 
  * Since training can take a long time, you want your data pipeline to be as efficient as possible.

6. Model Validation: 
  * After training the model for a sufficient amount of time, you will need to validate the model’s performance on a held-out portion of the overall dataset. 
  * This data needs to come from the same underlying distribution as the training dataset, but needs to be different data that the model has not seen before.

7. Model Persistence: 
  * Finally, after training and validating the model’s performance, you need to be able to properly save the model weights and possibly push the model to production. 
  * This means setting up a process with which new users can easily use your pre-trained model to make predictions


Ques: Types of ML </br>
A: Following types :- </br>

**1. Supervised Learning:**
* In this the machine/model is trained by using labelled data, which acts as a guide for the model to learn.
* The training data set is perfectly labelled and the machine learns the attributes based on that data.
* Eg: Classification problem:
  - identify dog/cat in a mix collection of cat and dog photos
  - The output is labelled data with dog/cat
* Helps in solving **Regression & Classification** problems.
* Algos: Linear regression, SVM, KNN etc

**2. Un-Supervised Learning:**
* In this the model is simply fed data and the model itself tries to find out various patterns and co-relation between the attributes of the object in the data. (*without guidance i.e no labelled data*)
* The model creates clusters of the output based on feature/attribute similarity of the objects.
* Eg: Classification problem:
  * identify dog/cat in a mix collection of cat and dog photos
  * The output will be 2 seperate clusters, with all dog photos being in one and cat photos being in the other.
* Helps in solving **Association & Classification** problems.
* Algos: K-means, C-means etc

**3. Reinforcement Learning:**
* In this type of ML, the model is put in an environment and it learns to behave in that environment by performing actions and observing the rewards/penalties which it gets from those actions.
* Eg: 
  * Stranded on an un-known area, you eventually learn to live in that area. AplhaGo   
* Its kinda bruteforce with rewards/penalties to enhance learning.
* Helps in solving **Reward based** problems.
* Algos: SARSA, Q-Learning etc


